
# About

This book introduces the custom generics feature of Go programming language.
The custom generics feature is supported since Go 1.18.

The main purpose of generics is to avoid code duplications,
in other words, to increase code reusability.
Geneircs could also improve code execution performance as well for some situations.

For considerations of syntax backward compatibility and implementation difficulty,
the design of Go custom generics is not able to solve all code resue problems (for ever).
And for release schedule reason, some solvable (at least popentially) problems
have not been solved (temporatily).

Dispite the restrictions (temporary or not) in the Go custom generics design and implementation,
Go custom generics will be used widely in future Go programming.

The custom generics feature will continue to evolve in future Go versions.
That means there are some
This book shows what 

A reader needs to have basic Go knowledge to read this book.

# Syntax and Rules

##

Each item in a type union must be any of the following:
* a non-interface type
* a ~T, in which T is a non-interface type and its underlying type must be itself
* a blank interface type (for example, `any`)

An item may not be
* a non-blank interface type
* a constraint other than blank interfaces


##

```Go
type Key interface {~uint64 | ~string}

type SortedMap[M map[K]V, K Key, V any] struct {
	kvs  M
	keys []K
}

func (m *SortedMap[M, K, V]) Put(k Key, v V) {
	if m.kvs == nil {
		m.kvs = make(map[K]V)
	}
	n := len(m.kvs)
	m.kvs[k] = v
	if n == len(m.kvs) {
		return
	}
	if n == 0 {
		m.keys = []K{k}
		return
	}
	if n == 1 {
		if m.keys[0] > k {
			m.keys = 
		}
	}
	
	
}
```

## Interfaces

The role of interface types.

We say `T` is an `I`.

A method set defines a type set.

In theory, the type set defined by a method set is infinite.


## type parameter list may not be blank

## Constraints

Each constrait could be viewed as function

```Go
func Foo[
```

## `any`, as a type argument, satisfies `comprable`, as a type constraint.

Yes, although `comparable`'s type set is a subset of `any`'s type set,
`any` may be used as a type argument of the `comparable` type constraint.

In fact, any interface type may be used as type arguments of
the `comparable` type constraint.

This should be viewed as an exception of the general rule.

Does this works?

## Restrictions

* type declarations inside generic functions are not currently supported


func bar[V any]() {
	type T int // type declarations inside generic functions are not currently supported
}

* https://github.com/golang/go/issues/50202#issuecomment-1033369747 const types can't be type parameter

func f[P int]() {
	const y P = 5 // 
}

* https://github.com/golang/go/issues/48522#issuecomment-1033309212 common field constraints

must through methods

## Examples:

本人于XX年X月X日在XX地医院生育一男孩，现取名为NN，根据有关法律规定，现申请入户，望准予申请为盼。






